This whole phase of duodenal development is a phase of rotation,
it's a phase of organization for the duodenal, small intestine and
00:00:09.280
colic framework.
And we're going to see it now in the idea of the colic framework in relation to the duodenum.
You see me in profile, I have my aorta, we'll read it like this,
from the depth, on the plane of the colic framework,
that I have a spiral movement, the duodenum, the small intestine and
00:00:28.000
the colon.
whose motor for organization will be the liver.
If I look at this depth, we'll see that it develops
into what we call an organized facial pentagon
around the pancreas.
Do you remember the lesser sac of the omentum?
I have the right leaflet of the visceral peritoneum at the level of
my stomach
which makes this little fold.
And immediately, through the development of my liver, it goes backwards and
it creates a dynamic where the stomach positions itself,
where the right part becomes posterior and the left part becomes anterior.
And that creates this space.
At the same time, I have a whole development of my intestine that begins to happen.
For the duodenum, which will mainly be a 90-degree rotation from left
to right,
it's a rotation axis for hepato-pancreatic organization.
gastric and splenic. Initially, it's straight, it's a tube that organizes itself a bit in
movement
like this, with the upper intestine, the middle intestine, the lower intestine. But in this phase
of rotation, when it does this, imagine what happens here, you have to imagine this in a growth,
but it creates spaces of twisting movement like this, of intra-tissue rotation.
And these
rotation phases will create a whole zone that we call sphincters.
So all these sphincters will be created in this dynamic phase of development.
It creates like joints.
A joint, for example the sphincter between the stomach and the duodenum, is called
the pyloric sphincter.
And we will see that the pyloric sphincter responds to the establishment between the development
towards the right of my liver
and the gastric movement towards the left on its axis of rotation, of which the tissue
that develops within it.
will be called the lesser omentum.
This means that the lesser omentum, on the edge of my stomach and at the hepatic level,
when we take a lesser omentum, it is the tissue that organizes and rebalances
the pyloric sphincter.
We will start to think in this dynamic in relation to this power of development.
The entire movement, organization, and all this development will create what we call
the sphincter functions.
At the same time, I also have my two pancreatic buds, one
ventral, I remind you that it
comes as a gland, like the lungs,
it's the same principle, like the liver.
Finally, the liver is just an expansion
of a digestive tube on an endodermal
plane. I have the pancreas,
the anterior leaflet and the posterior leaflet
which will make this phase of
rotation,
which will follow this phase of
rotation. The pancreas
will develop in this movement as well.
it will ultimately determine a digestive state, of a metabolic type.
If I have a diet, it will determine this digestive state.
It will also determine...
A vegetative state, meaning that a destabilization of your
duodenal framework, because it moves, can cause, for example, a neurovegetative
dystonia, a depressive state.
To treat depression, you will need to free up the duodenal framework, you will need to lift
the intestine, you will need to re-energize the system purely on a facial level.
This will restore energy on a deep level, on the level of the microbiotic flora.
which is a huge genetic heritage,
which informs, through their production and enzymatic changes,
on a genetic level, the cerebral plane in its primary function.
It's a relationship with my ganglia, with my sympathetic, parasympathetic system,
with my system of semilunar ganglia, right, left, mesenteric plexus.
It's both facial, but since it's full of informers and receptors,
they will also function with serotonin levels.
80% of serotonin, of the hormone, of the...
Well-being comes from the intestine, these are ascending fibers.
The duodenal plane is one of the most informed planes on the autocrine, paracrine and neurocrine levels.
Everything in the second duodenum, in relation to the sphincter of Oddi, which is filled with
glycocalyx.
These are simply receptors for digestive information
or other.
When your food arrives, it's like this calorically.
Pancreas, you release this, liver, you go get that, you, you're going to stir a little more.
go get gastrin, we need to increase
our hydrochloric acids to restore
pure energy. The duodenum,
it's a concentrated place for that.
On a metabolic level, this compression
can lead to malabsorption
of certain proteins,
like sugar proteins,
lactose and lipids,
if you're going to find, vitamin D,
A. Vitamin D is very
important for calcium absorption which occurs
at the sphincter of Oddi.
This means that osteoporosis can also have
a purely digestive side due to malabsorption in the
context of
the hormonal information between the parathyroid and duodenal receptors for calcium information. This means that on this hormonal level, it is
also ultimately a rebalancing of the acid-base system which will be
reflected this time on a neurovegetative level on the hypothalamic level
which will give you back an organizing chemistry which will therefore play on
the organization of your sphincters. On a postural level, it is the acid-base postural chemistry organized by your duodenum
on a hypothalamic level and reorganized in your ergotrophic, paratrophic system.
If I move my pelvis like this, I open a sphincter, I
close a sphincter.
If I put myself like this, I close here, I open there.
It's a whole organization in your body that will play to increase or decrease
the passage of information.
I will find in my posture.
a constipating or diarrheal typology.
So I will simply modify my quality of information transfer,
but down to a molecular level.
So that means that osteoporosis has an origin that can be digestive,
related to an acid-base imbalance at the gastro-duodenal level,
since it is the site of resorption on the membranous plane that will occur at this level,
on the cellular level, which is determined by gastrin,
which is determined by the...
at the third duodenum and which is also related to the secretion of thyrocalcitonin.
So the sphincter of Oddi is an equilibrium
on a fulcrum between the rotatory movement of my pancreas
and the developmental movement of my biliary system.
This sphincter of Oddi on an embryonic level in its developmental phase
is in relation to the development of my liver and
of my pancreas.
The first fixed point that will develop at this level
will be the left colic flexure.
Then there will be another fixed point that will be made on the internal plane,
and the most mobile point will be the right colic flexure, the cecum.
On a chronological level, first,
one of the first small movements will be this hepatic movement.
So the motor, the main fulcrum, will be the liver.
So freeing the motility of the liver,
re-energizing the liver,
is to give a global fulcrum for the system.
Look at the concentration on a vascular, arterial, venous,
renal plane,
knowing that I also have the relationship with the stomach, with the liver, with my pancreas,
with my small intestine and therefore directly with my colon, with my transverse system.
The anatomical structure here is very important and we will see it in detail.
A destabilization of the duodenal framework can be a destabilization...
of your fertility. Because you have an artery passing here, which is the spermatic artery,
the ovarian artery, which gives all the trophicity. You have another level
which is the superior mesenteric artery, then you also have the inferior mesenteric artery.
This destabilization can completely destabilize the dynamic, hemodynamic flow in its depth.
And we will see that one of the masters of this relationship
will be the muscle of Treitz.
For now, what you remember is that there is a relationship with the lesser omentum
which will form my first sphincter, the lesser omentum which is the tissue
of articulation
between the liver and the stomach which will form the pyloric sphincter.
You have a second very important sphincter which is a 2D sphincter in relation to the
pancreas and the liver, fulcrum of the biliary ducts or
pancreatic ducts with this enzymatic point.
hormonal point. Another important sphincter here, the duodenojejunal sphincter, in
relation to the diaphragm via the Treitz muscle, in relation to the colic system via
my mesentery, duodenal-jejunal and colic relation.
So what happens here can be expressed there and therefore influence
for example an imbalance on the immune level since this is an immune level, it is a
concentration of lymphoid tissues.
which function synchronously on a fluid plane
given by the information of bacteria.
The importance of epithelial cells is the glycocalyx in the duodenum,
filled with receptors.
The duodenum must be seen with its surrounding tissue.
It's its peritoneum.
Between the transverse mesocolon, here, which is there,
and the mesoduodenum, you have small fossae
that we call the supraduodenal fossa.
the infraduodenal fossa, the duodenojejunal fossa,
which are what? In fact, places of passage of arterial level.
This peritoneum, these are double vascular laminae.
Too much stress, I will have at the level of the lesser sac of the omentum,
a viscerospasm, I will decrease the possibility
of irrigation.
These duodenal fossae are therefore arteriovenous fossae.
In relation, naturally, with my kidneys, in relation with the superior mesenteric veins,
inferior mesenteric veins,
the inferior mesenteric is deep.
Imagine a pancreatic problem or a viscerospasm, I have my pancreas, I have something that tightens my stomach,
whether it's psychological, digestive or otherwise, I decrease the irrigation,
that means it will determine a metabolic and digestive state.
finally on the sigmoid plane.
Sigmoid colic, sigmoid polyps,
ulcerative hemorrhagic rectocolitis,
all of this is in relation not only to the semilunar ganglia,
so the sympathetic, parasympathetic system,
and in relation to the diaphragmatic pillars.
Treating a problem of sigmoiditis or hemorrhagic rectocolitis
which would perhaps supposedly be of a purely psychic origin
may find its origin in the depth of your duodenal framework.
And that freeing this vascular field is to free the trophicity.
Same thing on the right, if I have a destabilization, I have a loss of irrigation.
So I have a problem of poor irrigation on the testicular, spermatic plane
or on the ovarian plane.
What happens at the periphery may perhaps find its origin in a simple viscerospasm
between the A plane.
and the duodenal plane to bring back energy,
to free the deep framework to regain your serotonin,
to regain your transmitters.
It's also freeing the adrenals here.
The adrenals are really super important little hats
with a peripheral part and a central part
whose specific adrenergic neurotransmitters, etc.,
come from the internal part of your adrenals
and which are very important for the system.
for the proper functioning of your neurotransmitters, of cortisol,
which can inhibit your thyroid or inhibit your pituitary factors
simply by a poor adaptation to stress, for example.
This shows us that the duodenum is informed by the mobility of the kidneys,
which is informed by the mobility of your liver.
Glisson's capsule can destabilize your entire lymphatic drainage axis.
We know that the perirenal fascia, so at the level...
of this psoas bed
drains up to 1 liter
to 1.5 liters of lymph per day
so that means it's your whole garbage system
that needs to balance
look at this muscle of Treitz
it's really a continuation of the diaphragm
it's one of the most important crossroads
on the vascular plane of your digestive system
it's my celiac trunk
I have the whole system
hepatic, gastric
Splenic, what comes from there?
I go up, I make a viscerospasm, I change the vascular state
here.
It is made of two parts, a muscular part and a fibrous part.
So, two different types of information.
I will have a direct relationship with the phrenic nerve,
which is in relation with the phrenic center, so with my cervical spine,
so with C3, C4, directly here, by muscle, by reflex.
How can this cause shoulder pain or cervical pain?
By freeing this area, you will immediately free your cervical rotation.
It's normal because it's a reflex pathway.
Don't forget that it works like this.
That these aerospasms can reverberate via sensory fibers in the system.
And in fact, instead of going back into that, they go back on lateral motor pathways.
I have my C3, I have my C4.
Not only do I have a phrenic nerve, but I have a targeted relationship.
of ganglia or I will go back into other systems, among others the irrigation or the innervation
at the cervical level or simply at the level of your arm or your elbow. This is a neurological pathway
but also a facial pathway since it is an expansion of your cardiopleuro-peritoneal sac.
If I pull or if I close, increase or decrease the duodenojejunal angle.
So I can have a reflex state on the cecal plane, via the mesentery.
with a lymphatic pathway, lymphatic, lymphatic, mesenteric,
and then I find myself on ergotrophic or trophotrophic planes
by the concentration of ganglia of sympathetic or orthosympathetic type.
With my aorta, which will be found in phases of rotation,
I can destabilize my heart by an aortic movement here.
So I can free an aorta here to free a branch here,
and thus free all information here.
You see that it is a fulcrum in its part.
This is where we will release it, this is where we will rebalance it.
What surrounds it? The esophagus.
What surrounds it? The celiac trunk.
And there, what do I have? Superior mesenteric.
So the whole arcade here and a little lower, what do I have? The whole inferior mesenteric.
Do you understand a bit the idea of this power, of this facial pentagon?
I take all my fascia and I do this.
I go into the thing, and now I pull, I have everything, and there I am attached.
And what he said, your whole column, your whole peritoneum,
all your intestines are attached to the aorta and to the vertebral column.
The muscle of Treitz informs about blood flow, at the intra-peritoneal level
and at the supramesocolic level.
The muscle of Treitz is informed by all the frameworks, by a metabolic plane
and by a mechanical plane and above all not to forget its relationship
with the kidney, the psoas
which can for example give us a gonadalgia. We will have to refocus the peritoneum
in its original fulcrum and also in its terminal point. Not only does it have its fulcrum
but it also has its arrival point. It is its pure electrical concentration on a magnetic plane.
On an energetic plane, there is a subtle energy that circulates.
Because we can put this back in a pentagon like this.
You have an important point here.
Ileocecal, hepatic, gastric, left colic, very important fulcrum, sigmoid.
Then I go back into the little star, here, here, here, here, here.
These are the key points of a peritoneal work.
And this lesser omentum, that's what we're going to learn to release.
I have both a hepatic lamina that takes up the portal vein, the hepatic artery and the biliary ducts.
So I have a very important, purely metabolic, digestive and circulatory level.
Well, my lesser omentum is there.
And like that, we're going to go to the right side, here.
There, I have the purely vascular hepatic lamina.
I find myself with the portal vein.
The portal vein.
I have my hepatic duct here and I have the proper hepatic artery here, and all of that
is maintained, held in the lesser omentum, so not only do I have a very important embryonic fulcrum,
but I also have a point of freedom for all my metabolic return
of venous type here, I have this whole sigmoid side that comes here and
there I have this cecal side that comes back here.
And here, I have the whole relationship
with my second duodenum
on this biliary duct.
All of that is enclosed in a fascia.
Together, I am maintained
with a part after which is
a rather free edge and a more condensed edge after, which takes up
the complete mesentery of the right leaflet,
of the left leaflet of my gastric plane.
There, I take the stomach.
And between my two,
20 portal, arteries and paws.
biliary duct here, there I have a more flexible edge and
then behind here I have a more free edge, there I am on a fulcrum and there I will simply go
into a global state little by little to restore this freedom of the tissue from
the surface and there I really have the axis of rotation between my liver and
my stomach, so I have the entire future organization of my lesser sac of the omentum
and all the primitive duodenal rotation.
So this first portion of the duodenum,
we can say that it is in relation with the lesser omentum.
The posterior part of the leaflet is in continuity with the hepatic fossa.
So it is the conduit of the portal vein
and which therefore determines the flow of return
and therefore all the rebalancing of sigmoid or colic stasis.
It is also fixed by the Treitz fascia,
neuroduodenal, hepatic stability, diaphragmatic stability.
The second duodenum is in relation with the hepatocystic-colic system,
that is to say, also with my urethra and the duodenum.
So it is important to treat the kidneys, to free the perirenal fascia,
to free the psoas when treating a duodenum.
The third duodenum will be mainly in relation with the middle lumbar system, L3-L4.
with all the relation at the level of the ovarian artery and the testicular artery.
So all fertility problems, I have all my relations with my second duodenum,
there, with my diaphragm, and which has a diaphragmatic lemniscus.
I have a lemniscus here, by this play here, there, and then I have a large lemniscus
on my pelvic plane,
which is in relation with a large lemniscus.
of Winslow, it is the entrance gate to the lesser sac of the omentum.
You see this movement, you who do this, when I leave, I enter, this is the hiatus of
Winslow, then I enter the vestibule, I enter behind, and then I have my walk.
The path of osteopathic knowledge, it is always important to study embryology
which will make you understand anatomy, anatomy will make you understand physiology, physiology
will lead you to a study of pathophysiology, then you will understand
that in pathophysiology.
which has a link with psychology.
Psychology will lead you to philosophy,
and philosophy will lead you to spirituality.
This means that you will be able to free your deep attachment plane
to dare to rediscover your emptiness.
You do this with each respiratory act.
You give back your breath each time.
If you truly give back, you can die in peace.
Ultimately, all the work is about dying in peace.
That's why meditation is a training for death at every moment.